This is a web service that allows users to upload images of a garbage item and tells them whether the item in the image is recyclable or not. It consists of a client, an EC2 server, an S3 bucket, and a Lambda function.  The client takes a .jpg image path as user input and generates a base 64 encoded string of the image, which gets sent to the server. The server then decodes the image and uploads it to an S3 bucket. This upload triggers our Lambda function which runs a Tensorflow model that identifies the object in the image. We use a dictionary to determine whether or not the predicted class is recyclable and generate a new file name (this time with a .jpeg extension to prevent recurrent Lambda triggers), where the suffix indicates the result of the computation (e.g. “origimage_recyclable.jpeg” or “origimage_notrecyclable.jpeg”). The original image is then re-uploaded to S3 with the new file name. In the meantime, the server continuously checks for newly uploaded files with either of these suffixes. If such a file is detected, the server sends the recyclability classification as a json object (either recyclable or not recyclable) to the client, which gets returned to the user.

Note about AWS Lambda: The Lambda function was built from a Docker image. Included in the repository is a bashfile that builds the Docker image and deploys it to AWS Lambda once the user is logged into their AWS CLI (using aws configure). The Dockerfile is also present in the image and builds on top of a base image of Python 3.10 released by AWS. All dependencies like Tensorflow and PIL (which are non-standard libraries) are present in `requirements.txt` and are installed when the Docker image is built. Be sure to use the correct S3 credentials in the `credentials` file. 

Remember to replace AWS credentials in `credentials` and `web-service/gc_config` before using.